h1. Scheduling Calendar

A Rails plugin that creates the ability to add specific events to a calendar and assign them to categories.  On the frontend, a calendar listing will be displayed along with a mini-calendar widget with events highlighted, as well as a filter-by-category form.  Calendar can be exported in iCal format, or subscribed to.

NOTE:  This is a work in progress and currently exists as a set of sample files to add to an existing project.  A gem might be created in he future.

h3. Features

* Add/Edit/Delete calendar event for a specific date or date range
* Assign calendar event to a category (program)
* Add/Edit/Delete categories (programs)
* Export calendar events as an iCal file
* Subscribe to entire calendar
* Subscribe to a specific category or categories
* Decent test coverage using Shoulda, Mocha, and Factory Girl

h3. What's Included

* jRails jQuery javascript libraries
* SASS stylesheets for skinning the backend and frontend of the calendar
* Admin and Application layouts
* Supporting images for the tool
* Database migration file
* All necessary models, controllers, and helpers
* All necessary views

h3. Requirements

*Gems*
* RedCloth, "http://redcloth.org":http://redcloth.org
* will_paginate, "http://github.com/mislav/will_paginate":http://github.com/mislav/will_paginate
* haml, "http://haml-lang.com":http://haml-lang.com
* formtastic, "http://github.com/justinfrench/formtastic":http://github.com/justinfrench/formtastic
* searchlogic, "http://github.com/binarylogic/searchlogic":http://github.com/binarylogic/searchlogic
* icalendar, "http://icalendar.rubyforge.org":http://icalendar.rubyforge.org

Be sure to vendor the following gems by inserting these lines into your environment.rb file:
<pre><code>
  config.gem 'RedCloth',
             :lib => 'redcloth' 
  config.gem 'will_paginate', 
             :lib => 'will_paginate', 
             :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'
  config.gem 'haml',
             :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'
  config.gem 'formtastic',
             :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'
  config.gem 'searchlogic',
             :lib => 'searchlogic',
             :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'
  config.gem 'icalendar'
</code></pre>

To run the included tests, place this in config/environments/test.rb:
<pre></code>
  config.gem  'mocha'
  config.gem  'factory_girl',
              :lib => 'factory_girl',
              :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'
  config.gem  'shoulda',
              :lib => 'shoulda',
              :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'

  require 'factory_girl'
  require 'mocha'
</code></pre>

Then run
<pre><code>
  sudo rake gems:install
  rake gems:unpack
</code></pre>

To setup formtastic, be sure to run the following generator:
<pre><code>
  script/generate formtastic
</code></pre>

*Plugins*
* calendar_helper

Run <code>script/plugin install git://github.com/topfunky/calendar_helper.git</code>

h3. Routes

Add these to routes.rb
_Note: for calendar routes, params[:id] is the current date in the following format, 2009-01-14_
<pre><code>
  map.resources :programs
  map.resources :calendars
  map.connect  '/admin/calendars/:id', :controller => 'calendars', :action => 'index'
  map.connect  '/daily_event/:id', :controller => 'calendars', :action => 'daily_list'
  map.connect '/calendar/:id', :controller => 'calendars', :action => 'calendar_list'
  map.connect '/calendars/:id', :controller => 'calendars', :action => 'show'
  map.connect '/filter/calendar/:id', :controller => 'calendars', :action => 'filter'
  map.connect '/subscribe', :controller => 'calendars', :action => 'subscribe'
  map.connect '/subscribe_selected/:id/:program', :controller => 'calendars', :action => 'subscribe_selected'
  map.connect '/events/:id', :controller => 'calendars', :action => 'export_events'
  map.connect '/daily_events/:id', :controller => 'calendars', :action => 'export_daily_events'
  map.connect '/events/:id/:program', :controller => 'calendars', :action => 'export_selected_events'
  map.connect '/event/:id', :controller => 'calendars', :action => 'export_event'
</code></pre>

h3. How to Use

Out of the box, this provides both admin views and frontend views.  There is no authentication built-in so you are free to choose one to protect the admin panel.

In your application layout, reference these stylesheets and javascripts:
<pre><code>
  = stylesheet_link_tag 'formtastic', 'screen', 'calendar', 'facebox', :media => 'all', :cache => true
  = javascript_include_tag 'http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.4.0/jquery.min.js', 'http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jqueryui/1.7.2/jquery-ui.min.js', 'facebox', 'base', :cache => true
</code></pre>

In your admin layout, reference these stylesheets and javascripts.
<pre><code>
  = stylesheet_link_tag 'formtastic', :media => 'all', :cache => 'admin/all'
  = stylesheet_link_tag 'http://jqueryui.com/latest/themes/base/ui.all.css'

  = javascript_include_tag 'http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.4.0/jquery.min.js', 'http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jqueryui/1.7.2/jquery-ui.min.js', 'admin', 'http://jqueryui.com/latest/ui/ui.datepicker.js'
</code></pre>

*As an alternative, you can use the included admin layout which has it's own theme supplied.*

To access the calendar list view in the frontend, create a link like so:
<pre><code>
= link_to "Calendar", "calendar/#{Time.now.strftime('%Y-%m-%d')}"
</code></pre>

There is also a view named calendar.html.haml with will produce a standard calendar monthly view.  To use this instead of the default list view, change the calendar_list action in calendars_controller.rb from this:
<pre><code>
def calendar_list
  @events = Calendar.current_events(params[:id])
  @daily_events = @events.group_by { |d| d.start_date }

  respond_to do |format|
    format.html{ render :layout => 'application' }
  end
end
</code></pre>

to this:
<pre><code>
def calendar_list
  @events = Calendar.current_events(params[:id])
  @daily_events = @events.group_by { |d| d.start_date }

  respond_to do |format|
    format.html{ render :layout => 'application', :template => 'calendars/calendar.html.haml' }
  end
end
</code></pre>

Check the routes.rb file for a better understanding on how to user other routes.


h3. License

Copyright © 2009 Brandon Calloway, released under the MIT license